# NFT
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Non-fungible Tokens (NFTs) are here to stay. Despite the hyper volatility, the size of the NFT market is approximately $70B. The largest NFT marketplace has 600,000 registered users and 80 million NFTs.iii These digital assets have increasingly become more commonly used in art, gaming, finance, and other areas—“[c]ompare this to sales of modern art, which last year sat at $3.1 billion.”

This report discusses the complexities and challenges associated with intellectual property (IP) licensing for NFTs that are used in Picture for Profile (PFP) Projects. Since 2017, PFP Projects have used a variety of IP licenses to exert control over the art associated with the NFT, while still empowering the NFT holders. The premise of this research is that the lack of an industry standard slows innovation and harms consumers.

We examined a sample of 100 PFP Projects, selected from tens of millions of NFTs and thousands of PFP Projects. This sample provided sufficient data to extract trends, insights, and questions for further study. Based on this report, there are two recommendations. One, NFT marketplaces should include information about the applicable IP license used by the project. This approach is analogous to privacy policy information provided to users in mobile application stores.v And two, conduct a comprehensive study for as many PFP Projects as possible. This would allow additional legal analysis of trends, challenges, and inform future recommendations. Providing policymakers with concrete use cases, rather than hypotheticals, would result in more informed public policy regarding blockchain technology.

We conclude that improved industry standards can address many of the issues related to transparency, among others. But given the nascent stage of PFP Projects, technological changes, and wide experimentation with different license models, further study is both necessary and possible to keep pace with this rapidly developing space. Grant support to expand this research would enable the use of technical tools to collect more data, in real-time, and analyze it with more detail. Numerous entities, such as OpenSea, have accessible APIs that can be used for future analysis.
